# Annotation guidelines

## Grammaticality

Based on Heilman et al. (2014), as appearing in Yoshimura et al. (2020).
The definitions below are from Heilman et al. (2014, p. 175). Examples are
adapted from SweLL.

Note that grammaticallity is defined with respect to the system output only.
For instance, a sentence may be considered grammatically perfect if it alters
e.g. number or tense in a way that deviates from the intended meaning, as long
as it is correct given the new (possibly incorrect) interpretation.

## Perfect

***The sentence is native-sounding. It has no grammatical errors, but may
contain very minor typographical and/or collocation errors.***

Example: **jag tror att det finns bra möjligheter att uttrycka sig genom kläder i Sverige eftersom man nästan kan ha på sig vad man vill .**

This sentence contains a word choice error (tycker/tror) which changes the
interpretation slightly, and the position of "nästan" may be a bit unusual but
is acceptable. It is not properly capitalized, but following Heilman et al.
this is also accepted.

## Comprehensible

***The sentence may contain one or more minor grammatical errors, including
subject-verb agreement, determiner, and minor preposition errors that do not
make the meaning unclear.***

Example: **Jag tror att det finns bra möjligheter att uttrycker sig genom kläder i Sverige eftersom man nästan kan ha på sig vad man vill .**

There is a clear verb form error (att uttrycker), but the understanding of the
sentence is not affected.

## Somewhat comprehensible

***The sentence may contain one or more serious grammatical errors, including
missing subject, verb, object, etc., verb tense errors, and serious
preposition errors. Due to these errors, the sentence may have multiple
plausible interpretations.***

Example: **Jag tror finns bra möjligheter att uttrycker sig av kläder i Sverige eftersom nästan kan ha på sig vad man vill .**

There are multiple errors, including a preposition error (*av* rather than
*genom*) that makes it difficult to know whether it is difficult to express
one's opinions about clothing, or to express oneself through one's clothing.

## Incomprehensible

***The sentence contains so many errors that it would be difficult to
correct.***

We take this to mean that it would be difficult to correct because it
is difficult to comprehend.

Example: **Jag tror möjlig uttrycker kläderna i Sverige man då nästan kan vill ha det .**


# Fluency

Based on Lau et al. (2015). No definitions are given except the labels, so we
rely heavily on native speaker judgement.

## Extremely natural

## Somewhat natural

## Somewhat unnatural

## Extremely unnatural


# Meaning preservation

## Identical

## Minor differences

## Moderate differences

## Substantially different

Example: **Jag tror att du förstår mina problem även om jag inte är kvar i kursen .**

